# linux-faq

## cgroups 
<details>
<summary>The _____ cgroup keeps track of pages used by each group. Each page is "charged" to a group and can be shared across groups.
file (read/write/mmap from block devices)anonymous (stack, heap, anonymous mmap)active (recently accessed)inactive (candidate for eviction)</summary>
memory
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The _____&nbsp; (crowd control) cgroup allows to freeze/thaw a group of processes, much like it is done by SIGSTOP signals. Unlike signals however, it CANNOT be detected by the processes. This is useful for cluster batch scheduling and process migration. Doesn't impede ptrace/debugging.</summary>
freezer&nbsp;
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Do cgroups limit the resources a process can use (in quantity)?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>When a process needs to perform a root-account specific action, but you don't want it to have root account permissions, _____ can be set in order to "break down" the root account into multiple fine-grained permissions.</summary>
capabilities
Nevertheless, the CAP_SYS_ADMIN capability cannot be disabled.
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Each cgroup can have its own limits. The types of these limits can be either "_____" or "_____"</summary>
soft or hard
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>_____ cgroup limits are not enforced.</summary>
soft
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can you make a cgroup limit any kind of memory? (e.g. physical, kernel, total memory...)</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>When processes inside a Linux system are running out of memory, lower priority processes might be randomly killed by the kernel to free memory up. A _____ cgroup ensures that whenever a process inside it is running out of memory, only the processes inside that cgroup will be up for deletion in such a situation - never the ones outside it.</summary>
memory
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>_____ of memory cgroups trigger an Out-of-Memory killer inside them. A process will get killed when it goes above them.</summary>
Hard limits
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can a CPU cgroup set CPU limits?</summary>
No
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can a CPU cgroup set CPU weights?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>A _____ cgroup keeps track of user system cpu time, and usage per cpu.</summary>
CPU
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>oom-notifier

hugetlb cgroup</summary>

<br></details>

<details>
<summary>_____ cgroups pin groups of processes to a specific cpu or reserve cpus to specific apps, preventing processes from switching around CPUs.</summary>
cpuset
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The _____ cgroup keeps track of IO for each group. You can set throttle limits and relative weights for each group.</summary>
blkio
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>_____ cgroups automatically set traffic class or priority for traffic generated by processes in the group. (only works for egress traffic)
net_cls will assign traffic to a class (which then has to be matched with iptables)</summary>
net_cls and net_prio
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The _____ cgroup controls what a group can do what on device nodes (read/write/mknod permissions etc). You can do it on /dev/net/tun, /dev/fuse, /dev/kvm, /dev/dri so you can have network interface manipulation, filesystems in user space, VMs and GPUs inside containers.
Example:allow /dev/xxxxdeny everything else</summary>
device&nbsp;
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ can be used to move a process to a cgroup.</summary>
echo $PID &gt; /sys/fs/cgroup/.../tasks
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>PID 1 is placed at the root of each cgroup. Are its children created inside the parent's groups?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary><b>/proc/&lt;PID&gt;/cgroup</b> contains the process's _____</summary>
enclosing control group
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>_____ allow limiting the amount of resources usable by a process.</summary>
cgroups
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can cgroups limit CPU time usable by a process?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can cgroups limit I/O devices/operations usable by a process?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>_____ allow you to set resource limits on processes and their children.</summary>
cgroups
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can cgroups limit network bandwidth usable by a process?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can cgroups limit memory usable by a process?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Linux Containers are usually a combination of _____</summary>
cgroups, namespaces, SELinux, AppArmor
<br></details>


## devices 
<details>
<summary>The mount type _____ is one-directional.</summary>
slave
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The mount type _____ is not shown unless mounted.</summary>
private
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ displays memory usage</summary>
free
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ reports virtual memory statistics</summary>
vmstat
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The /dev directory predominantly stores _____</summary>
device files
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ unmounts a specified device</summary>
umount
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The directory /media predominantly contains _____</summary>
mounted external devices such as CD, DVD, USB drives etc
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The mount type _____ is private and cannot be replicated.</summary>
unbindable
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The directory /mnt predominantly stores _____</summary>
temporary mount points to filesystems&nbsp;
<br></details>


## files 
<details>
<summary>The command _____ is a data recovery tool, especially after using "dd"</summary>
ddrescue
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ can convert a full pathname to just a path</summary>
dirname
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ estimates space usage for each file</summary>
du
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ manipulates partition tables</summary>
fdisk
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ can determine a file's type.</summary>
file
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ creates a symbolic link to a file</summary>
ln
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ display disk usage and limits
The command _____ scans a file system for disk usage
The command _____ sets disk quotas</summary>
quota
quotactl

quotacheck
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ merges two files interactively</summary>
sdiff
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ runs the commands from a file.</summary>
source
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ splits a file into pieces of specified size</summary>
split
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ can redirect output towards multiple files</summary>
tee
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ searches for a program.</summary>
whereis
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ displays free disk space</summary>
df
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ lists txt files that only have 1 character in their name.</summary>
ls ?.txt
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ lists all files whose names begin with the letter "a", and their second letter is either "b" or "c".</summary>
ls a[bc]
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The directories /lib and /lib64 predominantly store _____</summary>
Program code libraries
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The directory /bin contains _____
/usr/bin predominantly stores _____
/sbin and /usr/sbin contains _____</summary>
boot binaries in single user mode

Executable programs
System administration binaries (FDisk, FSCH, ifconfig, init, makefs, shutdown, halt)
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The directory /usr predominantly stores _____</summary>
Application files.
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ lists the contents of a directory</summary>
ls
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ lists a folder's subdirectories</summary>
ls -R
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ updates a file's timestamp if it exists, and does nothing if it doesn't exist.</summary>
touch -c
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ extracts a tar file.</summary>
tar -xf
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ finds the directories within the current directory.</summary>
find . -type d
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ finds files that have the partial string "abc" in the name.</summary>
find . -name "abc*"
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The abstract indicator used to access an I/O resource such as a file, pipe or network socket is called a _____</summary>
file descriptor (FD)
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The three first file descriptors are: 0 ______, 1 _____, 2 _____.</summary>
0 stdin1 stdout2 stderr
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ pipes an unsorted.txt file into the sort command.</summary>
sort &lt; unsorted.txt
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>When RAM runs out, _____ is used.</summary>
swap space
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ can create a hard link</summary>
ln
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Does a file's inode store its ACLs?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ can display when a file was last accessed</summary>
stat
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ lists folders alphabetically</summary>
ls -l
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ sets the default permission of new files</summary>
umask
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ changes file attributes</summary>
chattr
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>An alias file for an existing file with identical inode is called a _____</summary>
hard link
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Does each file have its own inode?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Does a file's inode store its owner, group and permission information?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Does a file's inode store the file's creation timestamp?</summary>
No
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Does a file's inode store its access, change and deletion timestamps?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Does a file's inode store the number of links existing to the file?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ is used for file system consistency checks and repair.</summary>
fsck
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The target path of a symlink is stored in the file's _____</summary>
inode
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Does every directory have an inode?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Does a file's inode store its size?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Metadata about the filesystem (Type, Size, Mounts, Status) is called the _____</summary>
Superblock
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The _____ file lists filesystems and partitions mounted at boot time.</summary>
/etc/fstab
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ can mount a file system</summary>
mount
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The touch command has been used on an existing file. What happens to it?</summary>
The file's timestamp is changed to the latest date and time.&nbsp;
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ changes the current working directory.</summary>
cd
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ creates a link to a file</summary>
link
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ can move or rename files and directories</summary>
mv
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ prints the current working directory</summary>
pwd
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ displays the long list of a folder</summary>
ls -l
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ lists files in use by processes</summary>
lsof
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ creates new folders</summary>
mkdir
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ copies a file.

The command _____ makes a secure, remote file copy.
The command _____ copies files between two machines.</summary>
cp original.txt copy.txt
scp
rcp
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ creates a tar file</summary>
tar -cf
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ displays a file's contents.</summary>
cat
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ can search for files that meet specified criteria.</summary>
find
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ sorts contents of a file</summary>
sort
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ lists all txt files whose names start with an "A"</summary>
ls [A]*.txt
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The directory /tmp predominantly stores _____</summary>
Temporary files created by the system
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ displays the long list of files inside folder, including hidden files.</summary>
ls -al
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Does a file's inode store its file type?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ removes files</summary>
rm
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>"." (dot) as the first character of a file's or folder's name indicates that it is _____</summary>
hidden
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ finds files within the current directory.</summary>
find . -type f
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>An _____ is a data structure that stores relevant information about a file.</summary>
inode
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Does a file's inode store its special attributes?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ searches for a program throughout the directories written in a user's PATH environment variable&nbsp;</summary>
which
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ displays the differences between two files</summary>
diff
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The directory /etc predominantly stores _____</summary>
configuration files
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>You can't make hard links across filesystem boundaries because their _____ might be identical.</summary>
inodes
<br></details>


## namespaces 
<details>
<summary>A newly made process inherits its namespaces from the _____ process.</summary>
parent
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can process namespaces be used to isolate processes?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Does each PID namespace have its own numbering?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The _____ namespace allows processes to have their own semaphores, message queues and shared memory, without risk of conflict with other processes.</summary>
IPC
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Namespaces are created with the _____ syscall.</summary>
<b>clone()</b>
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The _____ namespace allows processes inside one to have their own network stack: sockets, iptables, routing tables and network interfaces (including loopback)</summary>
net
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ moves a network interface eth0 to namespace ns0</summary>
ip link set dev eth0 netns ns0
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Network namespaces can use Virtual Ethernet (veth) pairs to communicate. This involves creating two _____ acting as a "cross-over cable" between them.</summary>
virtual network interfaces
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can network namespaces communicate with each other via a bridge network?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>List all available namespaces</summary>
pidnetmntutsipcuser
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Do namespaces provide processes with their own view of the system?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Namespaces limit what a process can see. Can it affect or use resources it can't see?</summary>
No
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>How many namespaces of each type can a process be in?&nbsp;</summary>
One
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Processes within the _____ namespace can only see the other processes within it.</summary>
PID
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can PID namespaces be nested? (namespace within namespace within namespace...)</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>When PID namespaces are nested inside one another, a process inside one has as many _____ as the namespace levels it is nested in. This is how features like "docker in docker" can be implemented.</summary>
PIDs
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>PID 1 namespace is removed inside a PID namespace. What happens?</summary>
The whole namespace is destroyed.
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The _____ namespace allows you to map the UID/GID of processes. Even though you might be a privileged user with UID 0 in a container, you will just be user xxxxx on the host.</summary>
user
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The last process inside a namespace dies. What happens?</summary>
The namespace is destroyed. You can prevent this with a bind mount inside it.
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Namespaces are materialized via the /proc/&lt;PID&gt;/_____ pseudofiles.</summary>
<b>/proc/&lt;PID&gt;/ns</b>
<br></details>

<details>
<summary><!--anki-->The _____&nbsp;namespace lets a container mount something, and make it invisible to other containers.</summary>
mnt
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Using the _____ namespaces, processes can be given their own root filesystem (conceptually close to chroot)</summary>
mnt
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Using _____ namespaces, you can improve security by giving a unique /tmp or /proc directories to every user.</summary>
mnt
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can mnt namespace mounts be private or shared?</summary>
both
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can namespaces isolate users per process?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can namespaces isolate hostnames per process?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can namespaces isolate networking per process?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ allows your to enter a Linux namespace.</summary>
nsenter
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>______ allow processes to use identically named resources and isolate them.</summary>
namespaces
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can namespaces isolate resources per one or more processes?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ adds a process to an existing namespace.</summary>
setns
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>You can specify the mounted filesystems/devices visible to a process&nbsp;inside a _____ namespace.</summary>
mount namespace
<br></details>

<details>
<summary><b>/proc/&lt;PID&gt;/ns/ </b>directory contains the process's _____</summary>
links to namespaces used by the process
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can namespaces isolate drives and devices per process?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can namespaces isolate Inter-Process Communication per process?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can namespaces isolate mounts per process?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can namespaces isolate PIDs per process?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can namespaces isolate UTS per process?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>


## network 
<details>
<summary>Can network namespaces (netns) implement network isolation?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ links two virtual ethernet interfaces</summary>
ip link add veth1 type veth peer name veth2
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ adds a virtual ethernet interface to a network namespace</summary>
ip link set veth1 netns ns1
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ can be used to run commands inside a network namespace.</summary>
ip netns exec &lt;namespace&gt; &lt;command&gt;
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ creates a network namespace</summary>
ip netns add ns1
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ lists network interfaces on the localhost</summary>
ip link
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ lists network interfaces inside a namespace</summary>
ip -n ns1 link
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ assigns an IP to a network namespace</summary>
ip -n ns1 addr add 192.168.15.1 dev veth1ip -n ns2 addr add 192.168.15.2 dev veth2
ip -n ns1 link set veth1 upip -n ns2 link set veth2 up
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>To connect several network namespaces you need a virtual _____, ex. Linux Bridge or Open vSwitch</summary>
switch / bridge network
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ creates a new bridge network</summary>
ip link add v-net-0 type bridgeip link set dev v-net-0 up
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ deletes a veth pair between namespaces</summary>
ip -n ns1 link del veth1
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ links a veth interface "veth1" to a bridge network "v-net-0"</summary>
ip link add veth1 type veth peer name veth1-bridge
ip link set veth1-bridge master v-net-0
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ can trace the route to a given host.</summary>
traceroute
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Predefined ports used by the OS for short-lived client sockets are called _____ ports.</summary>
Ephemeral&nbsp;
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ queries a website's name server. The command _____ find the hostname of an IP address.</summary>
nslookup
dig
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ shows Ethernet card settings.</summary>
ethtool
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ can block an IP from connecting to your host</summary>
ip route add blackhole $BANNED_IP
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The _____&nbsp; file is a list of hostname-to-IP address mappings for resolving hostnames (DNS)
The _____ file specifies the DNS server and domain suffix of the system.</summary>
/etc/hosts
/etc/resolv.conf
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ shows network interfaces on the host system.</summary>
ip addr
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The ping command uses the _____ network protocol.</summary>
ICMP
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The tracert command uses the _____ network protocol.</summary>
ICMP
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ displays remote hosts connected to yours on port 3333</summary>
netstat -a | grep 3333
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ displays the status of the network.</summary>
netstat
<br></details>


## processes 
<details>
<summary>A process' _____ is the user identification number (inherited from the parent process) of the user who created it. Usually, only the creator of a process, and the superuser, can manipulate the process.</summary>
UID
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>init (or systemd) is the process with PID _____ that executes system startup scripts.&nbsp;</summary>
1
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ lists active jobs.</summary>
jobs
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ inversely sets the priority of a process.</summary>
nice (the lower the niceness, the higher the priority)
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ changes the priority of a running process.</summary>
renice
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>UTS stands for _____ and it gives a container its own hostname and domain name</summary>
Unix Timesharing System
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Programs running indefinitely in the background are called _____</summary>
daemons
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can processes communicate via SysV queues?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>A process consists of an _____ space and a set of data structures in the kernel.</summary>
address
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Are PID's (process ID's) unique?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>What is the Linux system call that initiates a new process?</summary>
Strangely, there is none. Instead, an existing process is copied via <b>fork</b>, then the copy's running command is replaced to a desired new command via <b>exec</b>.
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ can manipulate a process' UID.</summary>
setuid
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>fork creates a _____ of the original process, with a new PID.&nbsp;</summary>
copy
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>After a fork, child processes usually run one of the _____ routines, replacing the process they've copied from their parent.</summary>
exec
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Before a dead process disappears, its death must be acknowledged by its parent, who does so with a call to <b>_____</b>.</summary>
wait
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The <b>kill</b>&nbsp;command is sent to a process without any flags. The process receives the _____ signal. There are no guarantees whether this kills the process, as this particular signal can be either _____, _____ or _____ by the receiving process.</summary>
SIGTERM is sent to the process. There are no guarantees as to whether the process dies, as SIGTERM can be caught, blocked or ignored.
<br></details>

<details>
<summary><b>/proc/&lt;PID&gt;/fd/ </b>directory contains the process's _____</summary>
links to open file descriptors
<br></details>

<details>
<summary><b>/proc/&lt;PID&gt;/maps&nbsp;</b>contains the process's _____</summary>
memory mapping information
<br></details>

<details>
<summary><b>/proc/&lt;PID&gt;/root&nbsp;</b>contains the process's _____</summary>
symbolic link to its root directory (set via <b>chroot</b>)
<br></details>

<details>
<summary><b>/proc/&lt;PID&gt;/stat&nbsp;</b>contains the process's _____</summary>
status information (decoded by the <b>ps </b>command)
<br></details>

<details>
<summary><b>/proc/&lt;PID&gt;/statm&nbsp;</b>contains the process's _____</summary>
memory usage info
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can processes communicate via D-Bus?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can processes communicate via FIFO pipes?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can processes communicate via named pipes?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ shows processes of all users.</summary>
ps -a
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Do threads share the stack and CPU context with their process?</summary>
No
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The daemon that executes and logs processes scheduled at regular intervals is called _____, while the command to schedule them is _____</summary>
cron
crontab
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ sends a job to the foreground</summary>
fg
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ identifies the process that is accessing a file.</summary>
fuser
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ shows procceses that aren't attached to any terminal.</summary>
ps -x
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Each process has one or several execution contexts called _____, each with its own stack and CPU context, but the exact same address space as their process.</summary>
threads
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Linux processes have both a UID (User ID) and EUID (Effective User ID) to distinct between concepts of _____</summary>
identity and permission
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The _____ is the numeric identificator for a process's group.</summary>
GID
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ can manipulate a process's group.</summary>
setgid
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>A process's scheduling priority determinates how much _____ it receives.</summary>
CPU time
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>To create a new process, a process copies itself with the _____ system call.</summary>
clone (an overlay for fork)
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Fork returns two values. To the parent it returns _____. To the child it returns _____. This informs them both of what role they are playing in the forking.</summary>
The PID of the new child.
0
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>When a process completes, it calls the _____ routine, notifying the kernel that it is ready to die, along with an integer exit code indicating the reason why.</summary>
_exit
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>A parent process has died it could clean up its child processes via a call to&nbsp;<b>wait</b>. What happens to the child processes?</summary>
The PID 1 process (usually init or systemd) adopts them and performs the <b>wait</b>.
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Processes that have finished execution but had not yet been cleaned up by their parent are called _____ processes.</summary>
zombie
<br></details>

<details>
<summary><b>/proc/&lt;PID&gt;/cmd&nbsp;</b>contains the process's _____</summary>
command it's executing
<br></details>

<details>
<summary><b>/proc/&lt;PID&gt;/cmdline&nbsp;</b>contains the process's _____</summary>
complete command line
<br></details>

<details>
<summary><b>/proc/&lt;PID&gt;/exe&nbsp;</b>contains the process's _____</summary>
symbolic link to the executed file
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>______ are FIFO files creatable with <b>mkfifo</b>&nbsp;which allow communication between two processes on the same host. Network sockets / local domain sockets have mostly superseded them.</summary>
named pipes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Jobs are identified by their _____ ID and _____ ID.&nbsp;</summary>
PID (Process ID) and JID (Job ID)
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can processes communicate via SysV shared memory?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ shows processes along with their user/owner</summary>
ps -u
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>All other processes are directly or indirectly the children of _____</summary>
The PID 1 process (init or systemd)
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ show process status</summary>
ps
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ prints the process tree of a process.</summary>
pstree -p `PID`
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ displays processes in a user oriented format.</summary>
ps -u
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ shows a real-time, interactive list of processes.</summary>
top
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The directory /proc predominantly stores _____</summary>
Processes. The directory is a psuedo file system that is dynamically created whenever it is accessed.
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>A process' _____ is a set of memory pages (usually 4KiB/8KiB in size) that the kernel has marked for process to use. They contain variables, code, libraries, stacks and kernel-specific information that the process needs to execute.</summary>
address space
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>When a process is cloned, the original process is referred to as the _____, and the copy is called the _____.&nbsp;</summary>
parent
child
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Upon a process's death, does its parent receive a copy of the exit code?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Data is being read from a file by a thread. The kernel requests the disk blocks and has their content delivered into the requesting process's _____. Until it finishes, the thread is considered _____.</summary>
address space
sleeping
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>A process is considered "asleep" when _____</summary>
All of its threads are asleep (i.e. waiting for the kernel to finish something for them, like reading contents of a file)
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The higher the niceness of a process, the _____ priority it has.</summary>
lower
<br></details>

<details>
<summary><b>/proc/&lt;PID&gt;/cwd&nbsp;</b>contains the process's _____</summary>
symbolic link to its current directory
<br></details>

<details>
<summary><b>/proc/&lt;PID&gt;/environ&nbsp;</b>contains the process's _____</summary>
environment variables
<br></details>

<details>
<summary><b>/proc/&lt;PID&gt;/fdinfo/ </b>directory contains the process's _____</summary>
information on open file descriptors
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Cron's asterisk syntax (* * * * *) denotes, in order: _____, _____, _____, _____, _____.</summary>
minute, hour, day of the month, weekday
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Local domain sockets are connections between processes on the same host, creatable with the ______ system call.</summary>
socket
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can processes communicate via sockets?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can processes communicate via anonymous pipes?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can processes communicate via SysV semaphores?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Do threads share the same address space as their process?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The _____ of a child process refers to the PID of the process from which it was cloned.</summary>
PPID
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ limits the use of system-wide resources for a user.</summary>
ulimit
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>A process's place in the _____ contains its function parameters, local variables, return addresses and temporary data</summary>
stack
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>A _____ is the abstraction memory, processor time, I/O management and monitoring for a single running program</summary>
Process
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>_____ are a soft limit on containers - the more of them a container has, the more prioritized it is by a scheduler</summary>
CPU shares
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>You run the command <b>ls. </b>The following immediately happens:
The input gets read by the shell via _____, and the name is found within the $PATH dirs.&nbsp;
The _____ syscall duplicates the process, giving the child a new PID.
The _____ syscall stops the child and replaces its memory stack with data from the <b>ls </b>binary.
The parent process runs _____ in the meantime, as it will clean after the child process when finished.</summary>
<b>getline()</b><b>
</b><b>fork()</b>

<b>execve()</b><b>
</b><b>wait()</b>
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The _____ command is the modern superset of fork that handles threads and other features.</summary>
clone
<br></details>


## security 
<details>
<summary>_____ is a kernel security module that confines programs to a limited set of resources, reducing an application's attack surface.</summary>
AppArmor
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>AppArmor is configured via "____" which allow access to capabilities, network access, file permissions, either in <b>enforcing </b>or <b>complain </b>mode.</summary>
profiles
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>AppArmor enforcing mode does blocks _____</summary>
access to disallowed resources
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>AppArmor profile complain mode reports _____</summary>
violations
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>If you can't code in AppArmor's profile language, what can you do instead?</summary>
Generate a profile via Bane (https://github.com/jfrazelle/bane)
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The _____ kernel module can be used to "sandbox" syscalls in userspace, with restricted seccomp filters for extra security.&nbsp;</summary>
gVisor
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>_____ is a security modelling filter, deciding which syscalls are allowed inside an application or container. Without it, any signals can potentially be ran within, and it could even break out of its namespace by unsharing it.</summary>
seccomp
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ adds a user group.</summary>
groupadd
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ displays user and group ID's</summary>
id
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>the chmod 0111 permission means _____</summary>
EXECUTE permission for owner, group and public
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ modifies a group.</summary>
groupmod
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ displays the groups a user belongs to</summary>
groups
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ creates a new user account.
The command _____ modifies a user account.

The command _____ deletes a user account.

The command _____ lists users who are logged in.</summary>
useradd
usermod
userdel
users
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ displays the currently logged in user.</summary>
whoami
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ deletes a group.</summary>
groupdel
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ changes a user's password.</summary>
passwd
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ changes a file's owner or group.</summary>
chown
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>the chmod 0444 permission means _____</summary>
READ permission for owner, group and public
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>the chmod 0222 permission means _____</summary>
WRITE permission for owner, group and public
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The _____ file stores users and accounts.
The _____ file contains group definitions.

The _____ file contains encrypted passwords.</summary>
/etc/passwd
/etc/group
/etc/shadow
<br></details>


## shell 
<details>
<summary>The command _____ sends a process to the background</summary>
bg
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ declares variables.</summary>
declare
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ can be used to format text</summary>
fmt
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ can fit text to a desired width.</summary>
fold
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ creates a local variable</summary>
local
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ can display lines which begin with a specified string</summary>
look
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ reads a line from stdin</summary>
read
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ sleeps for a given time</summary>
sleep
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ removes a variable or a function</summary>
unset
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The _____ environment variable stores a list of directories that are searched for binaries of the commands typed into a terminal.</summary>
PATH&nbsp;
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Enclosing a string between _____ characters makes it literal.</summary>
single quote
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ evaluates expressions</summary>
expr
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ defines bash functions</summary>
function
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ parse bash positional arguments.</summary>
getopts
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ changes a variable</summary>
set
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ re-runs the last command.</summary>
!!
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ displays a message on the screen.</summary>
echo
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ evaluates commands and arguments passed to it.</summary>
eval
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Enclosing a line in _____ substitutes the value of variables/commands.</summary>
double quotes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Enclosing a string between _____ characters makes it act as command substitution.</summary>
`backtick`
<b>Example</b>echo "The word count of the file is 'wc -w file.txt'"
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ sorts text numerically</summary>
sort -n
<br></details>

<details>
<summary><b>command&nbsp;</b><b>3&gt;&amp;2&nbsp;</b><b>2&gt;&amp;1&nbsp;</b><b>1&gt;&amp;3 </b>swaps the _____ and _____ of a command.</summary>
stdout and stderr
<br></details>


## signals 
<details>
<summary>The kill command sends the _____ signal by default.</summary>
SIGTERM
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can the kernel send signals to a process to inform it of the death of its child process?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Which signal can you send using the kill command?</summary>
Any signal!&nbsp;
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The _____ records various information about each process, such as its priority, status, resource usage, opened ports and files, signal mask and address space map.</summary>
kernel
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>A signal is received by a process. If it has one, the process executes a custom _____ for the specific singal. Otherwise, the kernel takes a ____ on its behalf.</summary>
handler routine&nbsp;

default action
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Signal 1 is _____</summary>
SIGHUP (Hangup)
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Signal 2 is _____</summary>
SIGINT (Interrupt)
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Signal 3 is _____</summary>
SIGQUIT (Quit)
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Signal 10 is _____</summary>
SIGBUS (Bus error)
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Signal 18 is _____</summary>
SIGTSTP (Keyboard stop)
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Signals 30 and 31 are _____</summary>
USR1 and USR2 (User-defined)
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The _____ signal suspends the receiving process's execution until a SIGCONT signal is received.</summary>
SIGSTOP&nbsp;
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The signal _____ is used as a reset request towards a process.</summary>
SIGHUP
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Process-level interrupt requests in Linux are called _____</summary>
Signals
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can signals be sent to communicate between processes?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Signal 11 is _____</summary>
SIGSEGV (Segmentation fault)
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Signal 19 is _____</summary>
SIGCONT (Continue after stop)
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Signals 10 and 11 (BUS and SEGV) indicate ______</summary>
improper memory usage
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The signals _____ and _____ can't be caught, blocked or ignored by a receiving process.</summary>
9 (SIGKILL) and 17 (SIGSTOP)
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The signal _____ immediately destroys a process. It can't be blocked or caught by the process. Since it is done at kernel level, the process does not even actually receive this signal.</summary>
SIGKILL
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>A process is running inside your user terminal. The _____ signal will be sent to it if you press Control+C on your keyboard.</summary>
SIGINT
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>You can suspend a process with a _____ signal, then resume them with a _____ signal.</summary>
STOP
CONT
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>A process's received signal and system calls it makes can be displayed with _____</summary>
strace
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>When a handler routine is specified for a signal, the signal is referred to as being _____.</summary>
caught
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Signal 9 is _____</summary>
SIGKILL (Kill)
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Signal 15 is _____</summary>
SIGTERM (Software termination)
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Signal 17 is _____</summary>
SIGSTOP (Stop)
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Signal 28 is _____</summary>
SIGWINCH (Window changed)
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can a process block a received SIGCONT signal?</summary>
No - it can be caught or ignored however.
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can processes communicate via signals?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>


## streams 
<details>
<summary>The command _____ gets a file's word count.</summary>
wc
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ can divide a file into several parts</summary>
cut
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ outputs the first line of a file</summary>
head -1 file.txt
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ outputs the last line of a file</summary>
tail -1 file.txt
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ searches files for lines that match a pattern.</summary>
fgrep
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ can search files for lines that match a pattern.</summary>
grep
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ would print the second column in a text file.</summary>
&nbsp;cut -c2
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ continously prints newly added lines of a file.</summary>
tail -F
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>grep _____ _____ searches the /var/log/ directory for usages of the word "login"</summary>
grep login /var/log/*
<br></details>


## syscalls 
<details>
<summary>The kernel code and function stubs used by each process are stored within _____</summary>
The address space pages of each process.
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>_____ expose functionalities of the operating system to programs.</summary>
system calls
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>A _____ represents one end of a connection as a channel of communication.</summary>
socket
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>_____ performs "memory mapping" of pages to the process address space. _____ can then be used to unmap them.</summary>
mmap
munmap&nbsp;
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>each process has 3 user IDs: _____ (the owning user), _____ (determines privileges), _____ (set by exec to match the effective ID)</summary>
real ID, effective ID, saved ID
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>How many users can a file or directory be owned by?</summary>
Only one
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Can <b>exec</b> can change IDs of files via <b>setuid</b>?</summary>
Yes
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>the file permission classes are _____, _____ and _____</summary>
user, group, other
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>the syscalls for files are _____, _____, _____, _____</summary>
open, close, read and write
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>the syscall _____ opens/creates a file and returns a file descriptor</summary>
open
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>the syscall _____ releases a file descriptor</summary>
close
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>the syscall _____ copies bytes from a file to memory. Blocks.</summary>
read
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>the syscall _____ copies bytes from of memory to a file. Blocks</summary>
write
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>_____ gets/sets default permissions for new files/directories created henceforth by a process.</summary>
umask
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>_____ changes permissions of an existing file/directory. The invoking process' EUID must be 0, or match the owner of that file/directory.</summary>
chmod
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>_____ changes the owner of an existing file/directory. The EUID of the invoker must be 0 or the owner of the file/directory.</summary>
chown
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>each file and directyory in a partition is known by a unique inode _____</summary>
number
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>a partition's root directory always has inode number _____</summary>
2
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>the _____ syscall adds a directory entry (hard link?)</summary>
link
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>A file is ready to be released/overwritten once its _____'s link count equals 0.</summary>
inode&nbsp;
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>the _____ syscall makes a symbolic link</summary>
symlink
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Signals are sent by _____ or _____</summary>
the kernel
the kill syscall
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>A signal's _____ must perform a default action, invoke a handler function, block, or ignore it.</summary>
receiving process
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>Are system calls ran within the context of the kernel?</summary>
No - each process gets its own system call definitions inside its address space, and syscalls are ran by calling them within the context of the process&nbsp; This avoids making a context switch to the kernel, lightening its computational load.
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ is used to trace signals and system calls.</summary>
strace
<br></details>


## system 
<details>
<summary>The command _____ displays information about the operating system.</summary>
uname
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ prints kernel ring file and driver messages.</summary>
dmesg
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The directory /var predominantly stores _____</summary>
log files, spool files, variable size files
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>To view the systemd journal logs for a specific service unit, you would use the command _____</summary>
journalctl -u [UNIT]
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ sets an environment variable</summary>
export
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ changes the root directory for a process and its children, making them unable to access files outside of it.</summary>
It is operation that changes the root directory for current process and its children. A program that is run in such environment cannot name and access files outside the designated directory tree
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The command _____ prints the current user's environment variables.</summary>
env
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The directory /srv predominantly stores _____</summary>
Files saved by running servers and services (like Apache)
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>When the&nbsp;<b>dmesg </b>command runs, it outputs messages from the _____.</summary>
kernel
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>_____ allows Linux not to have to rescrape its own filesystem if it goes down.</summary>
Journalling
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>_____ allows Linux to replay its work thus far and complete all incomplete transactions in case of outage.</summary>
Journaling
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The _____ directory contains startup scripts and services.

The _____ file contains init process configuration.</summary>
/etc/init.d

/etc/inittab or /etc/grub.conf
<br></details>

<details>
<summary>The directory /boot predominantly stores _____</summary>
boot loader static files
<br></details>

